README.md, before:

# Pelias Documentation

Here is where you can find all documentation for the [Pelias geocoder](https://github.com/pelias/pelias/).

## Table of Contents

### Core Features and API Documentation
- [Forward geocoding](search.md) to find a place by searching for an address or name
- [Reverse geocoding](reverse.md) to find what is located at a certain coordinate location
- [Autocomplete](autocomplete.md) to give real-time result suggestions without having to type the whole location
- [Global coverage with prioritized local results](search.md#prioritize-results-by-proximity)
- [Structured Geocoding](structured-geocoding.md) to find a place with data already separated into housenumber, street, city, etc
- [Glossary of common terms](glossary.md)
- [Place endpoint](place.md) for details on a place returned from a previous query
- [Language support](language-codes.md) for seeing results in different languages

### Data Sources
- [Pelias data sources](data-sources.md)

### Running your own Pelias
- [Pelias installation guide](https://github.com/pelias/pelias/blob/master/INSTALL.md)

### Pelias project development
- [Release notes](release-notes.md). See notable changes in Pelias over time

Commit message:

Initial commit
Initial commit for /convert documentation, TOC update, and stub for /search documentation

README.md, after:

# Pelias Documentation

Here is where you can find all documentation for the [Pelias geocoder](https://github.com/pelias/pelias/).

## Table of Contents

### Core Features and API Documentation
- [Forward geocoding](search.md) to find a place by searching for an address or name
- [Reverse geocoding](reverse.md) to find what is located at a certain coordinate location
- [Autocomplete](autocomplete.md) to give real-time result suggestions without having to type the whole location
- [Global coverage with prioritized local results](search.md#prioritize-results-by-proximity)
- [Structured Geocoding](structured-geocoding.md) to find a place with data already separated into housenumber, street, city, etc
- [Glossary of common terms](glossary.md)
- [Place endpoint](place.md) for details on a place returned from a previous query
- [Language support](language-codes.md) for seeing results in different languages
- [Convert endpoint](convert.md) to convert between decimal degrees and MGRS coordinates

### Data Sources
- [Pelias data sources](data-sources.md)

### Running your own Pelias
- [Pelias installation guide](https://github.com/pelias/pelias/blob/master/INSTALL.md)

### Pelias project development
- [Release notes](release-notes.md). See notable changes in Pelias over time
